Search Attributes (#4)
temporalio/edu-interacting-with-workflows-typescript: search-attributes/what-is-the-visibility-feature.md

# What is the Temporal Visibility Feature?

> This chapter and the next chapter are review from our [Versioning](https://learn.temporal.io/courses/versioning) training course.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This chapter and the next chapter will review concepts that have been discussed previously in our [Versioning](https://learn.temporal.io/courses/versioning) training course.
```

Reviewer: Actually, is it pertinent to mention this? Haven't we withdrawn the versioning course?

Author: We have withdrawn it temporarily but we plan to release it with the worker versioning section removed. It will be released before the Signals course :)

> The term Visibility, within the Temporal Platform, refers to the subsystems and APIs that enable an operator to view, filter, and search for Workflow Executions that currently exist within a Cluster.

Author: Removed

> The [Visibility store](https://docs.temporal.io/self-hosted-guide/visibility) in your Temporal Cluster persists Workflow Execution Event History data. Every Event that occurs within a Workflow Execution is recorded and stored here. The primary function of the Visibility store is to facilitate the listing and filtering of Workflow Executions. This provides you with a detailed view of what's happening in your Temporal Cluster.

Reviewer: >in your Temporal Cluster persists Workflow Execution Event History data. Every Event that occurs within a Workflow Execution is recorded and stored here.

This is incorrect. Workflow Execution Event History data is stored in the main persistence database, not visibility.

The visibility store only contains specific information on workflows, in a way that is optimized for efficient searching/listing.

> The [Visibility store](https://docs.temporal.io/self-hosted-guide/visibility) in your Temporal Cluster stores persists Workflow Execution Event History data. This means every Event that occurs within a Workflow Execution is logged and stored here. The primary function of the Visibility store is to facilitate the listing and filtering of Workflow Executions, providing you with a detailed view of what's happening in your Temporal Cluster.

Author: TY for suggestion. Changed with yours.

> The Web UI, CLI, and SDK use Temporal's _Visibility_ features to retrieve information about Workflow Executions. All Temporal Clusters, as well as Temporal Cloud, support the ability to find Workflow Executions by Workflow ID, Workflow Type, Run ID, execution status, and/or within a specified time range.

Reviewer: > ll Temporal Clusters, as well as Temporal Cloud, support the ability to find Workflow Executions by Workflow ID, Workflow Type, Run ID, execution status, and/or within a specified time range.
>
> Temporal Cloud and self-hosted clusters both support additional Visibility capabilities.

What you describe here is the standard vs advanced visibility. Standard visibility is basically getting deprecated since Server 1.20, as advanced visibility is now supported on SQL backends.

You may want to reformulate these paragraphs to reflect that fact.

> The Web UI, CLI, and SDK, use Temporal's _Visibility_ features to retrieve information about Workflow Executions. All Temporal Clusters support the ability to find Workflow Executions by Workflow ID, Workflow Type, Run ID, execution status, and/or within a specified time range.

Author: Done

> The Web UI, as well as the command line tool and SDK, uses Temporal's _Visibility_ features to retrieve information about Workflow Executions. All Temporal Clusters, as well as Temporal Cloud, support the ability to find Workflow Executions by Workflow ID, Workflow Type, Run ID, execution status, and/or within a specified time range.

Author: Got it, fixed! Thanks!

> Temporal Cloud and self-hosted clusters both support additional Visibility capabilities. This includes clusters running a recent version of Temporal software and older versions configured to use Elasticsearch. This allows for more powerful searches, using a SQL-like expression known as a List Filter. This capability is essential in a production environment, where you might need to find all open Workflow Executions of a given type among millions that are currently running.

Author: Thanks for the mini lesson - removed!

> Temporal Cloud, as well as self-hosted clusters that are either running a recent version of the Temporal software or an older version that has been configured to use Elasticsearch, support additional capabilities for Visibility. This allows for more powerful searches, using a SQL-like expression known as a _List Filter_. This capability is essential in a production environment, where you might need to find all open Workflow Executions of a given type among millions currently running.

Author: Thanks! Changed!
